prepared for accessing the files where the songs are stored.
I see that the two songs,
Bringing in the Sheaves and Send a Light.
And 1 Corinthians chapter number nine,
if you have your Bibles,
turn there to that passage of scripture
in 1 Corinthians chapter number nine.
We're looking from verses 16 down through 27.
I'm mindful each time that I enter into this auditorium
on our right-hand side,
as you walk in on the right, there's Send a Light.
And there's a map of the world,
quite smaller than the map on the left-hand side,
but the lighthouses and the admonition,
the reminder that is ours to send a light.
And you look to the left,
and of course, our missions map that gives us, again,
the perspective of the responsibility that we have
to take the gospel to all the world and to send the light.
And those pictures of those missionaries
that are represented are folks that we,
as a church family, regularly support.
And not only through our financial giving,
but through our prayers and praying for them
as they go to seek to preach the gospel
to various places around the globe.
And what a blessing that when you push
that little red button, all of those lights light up
on that map of all of the places
in which we have missionaries.
In fact, Carter, my nephew, would you run over there
and push that red button for me real quick?
And I know the folks on livestream can't see this.
Come on, hurry, man.
You see the red button?
Yeah, push that, hold it in for me.
Can you see all those lights?
I know it's bright in here,
so you might not be able to see them well.
But each of those lights represents a family
that we have, with the help of God,
decided that we're gonna partner with them
and try to get the gospel around the globe.
Now, you'll see on that map,
not only when we designed that, thank you, Carter,
Brother Doug and Brother Ed and Don Curry
had much to do with that.
Jim had much to do with it,
continues to help with the maintaining of it.
But when we did that map, we wanted to have a light
represent each place where a missionary was
so that we could see where we're sending the gospel.
But it also gives us a visual of some places
where there are no lights
and some places in which we need to get the gospel to,
some areas in which it's dark still, if you will.
And we think about the responsibility of sending the light.
I had the privilege this past week,
we had an inspection here at church.
It was not anything to do with the parsonage,
it was for the church.
And as we had that inspection, I was praying
and God answered prayer.
You know that truth, Ephesians 3.20, I share it often,
that he's able to do exceeding abundantly
above all that we ask or think.
And so I asked for something simple
with regard to that inspection
and he answered exceeding abundantly above.
And the fellow that was doing the inspection, he walks in,
he didn't get any further
than where Brother John is sitting this evening.
And he turned around, he was walking in front of me,
he turns around and he said,
pastor, I got one question for you.
You guys have in church?
I mean, are you having people in church?
And I said, yes, sir.
He said, man, I'm so glad to hear that.
God's people need to be in God's house.
And he starts going, I'm like,
this is gonna be a good inspection.
Amen, I was rejoicing.
We got over to that missions map
and he must've looked at that thing, I don't know,
five, 10 minutes and just kinda talking about missionaries.
It was encouraging.
Got to pray with this fellow before he left.
And what a blessing it was, but what a reminder
as we think about our responsibility
to take the gospel to a lost and dying world.
And it is our responsibility here in Jerusalem
in our locale to carry the gospel.
Here in 1 Corinthians 9,
the apostle Paul is really sharing his testimony
and sharing his burden, if you will,
for preaching the gospel.
Of course, you understand that Paul was a man
that God used in a great way.
I believe one of the reasons in which God used Paul
in such a great way is because Paul was surrendered to God.
Paul was willing to do whatever it was
that God wanted him to do.
He understood the truth of absolute surrender.
He understood the truth of being crucified with Christ.
We look at that verse this morning
in Galatians 2 in verse number 20.
We find that the apostle Paul was a man
that was surrendered to the will of God in his life.
And God used him greatly.
I believe that God will use any one of his servants
as we surrender ourselves to him
and we ask him to use us for his honor and for his glory.
The apostle Paul was not seeking any recognition
in of himself.
He was not seeking to have some accolades laid toward him.
He was seeking to preach Christ.
The Bible tells us in Romans 1
that he was ready to preach the gospel.
We find here in 1 Corinthians 9,
the apostle Paul, I'm gonna read a verse
and then we'll get into the text
and give you the title here from verse number 23.
Notice what the Bible says.
Paul says,
and this I do for the gospel's sake,
that I might be partaker thereof with you.
If I were to give a title to the message this evening,
I'd simply use this phrase from verse number 23,
for the gospel's sake.
For the gospel's sake.
When you look at the heart
and you see into the life of the apostle Paul,
you see a man that, as I mentioned already,
he was surrendered to the Lord
and he was used greatly of the Lord.
And he went everywhere as he went and he was preaching.
The Bible tells us in Acts 17
that when he gets to Thessalonica,
that he goes to a synagogue as his manner was.
And as he would get to these new cities,
he determined that he was going to seek opportunity
to preach Christ.
And he was going to seize those opportunities.
We find that Paul,
he was just a man that was surrendered.
He had that desire to see the gospel go forth.
And we find that this evening,
as we would look at our lives
and we would begin to evaluate really our priorities,
if you will,
with regard to this truth of giving the gospel,
I hope this evening that God would challenge
each and every one of us
with regard to the subject matter that is before us.
The reality is that every human being
upon the face of the earth will one day die.
It's just a fact.
Everyone's going to die.
And every human being upon the face of the earth
is either saved or lost.
There's no in-between ground.
There's no almost.
In fact, it was Agrippa that said,
almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian.
And Paul responded that I wish that you were not almost,
but you are altogether such as I am,
except for these bonds.
We find that there's no in-between.
There's no almost being saved.
There's saved and there's lost.
And just as there's two categories of people,
there's only two eternal destinations,
heaven and the lake of fire.
That's it.
There's no in-between.
There's no, I almost made it
and I'm going to spend some time
in order to have some things taken care of
so that I can, then it doesn't work that way.
In fact, if you were to look into the gospel accounts
and you read the account of the rich man and Lazarus
and you find the truth with regard to the permanence
of that eternal destination.
You read Revelation chapter number 20
and you read about the great white throne judgment.
If it doesn't convict you, if it doesn't stir you up,
I'm not sure what can.
When you read that death and hell were cast
into the lake of fire, this is the second death.
Wow.
I'm thankful this evening to be saved.
Amen.
I'm thankful to know that heaven is my home
and to be assured of it.
But we've been entrusted with a message.
This message that we've been entrusted with,
we have a responsibility.
And as I look at the life of the apostle Paul,
and I'm going to share this video this evening.
It's not from one of our missionaries.
In fact, it's a man that's with the Lord right now.
But he as an individual made a decision
that by God's grace and with God's help,
he was going to seek to distribute gospel tracts.
That's what he did.
And ask questions to those individuals
that he would give those gospel tracts to.
When I watched this video,
I was encouraged by this man's faithfulness to the Lord.
Then I was challenged,
because the reality is that all of us can do something
to fulfill the great commission that God has given us.
As we look at this passage
and examine it just for a few moments this evening,
I want you to note with me, first of all,
the priority of Paul.
In verses 16 through 18, we see that God gives us
as Paul is sharing his testimony
with the believers in Corinth,
and we have insight into understanding
the priority that Paul has,
his priority in preaching the gospel.
He understood the call that God had placed upon his life.
He understood that he had a responsibility,
and I believe this evening that he took the call of God
and the responsibility that he had been given seriously.
And as the people of God this evening,
we too have been given a commission.
We too have been given a responsibility,
and it's important, it's imperative for us
as the people of God to take serious
the work that God has given us to do.
The Bible says this in verse 16,
for though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of.
For necessity is laid upon me, yea, woe is unto me
if I preach not the gospel.
For if I do this thing willingly, I have a reward.
But if against my will a dispensation of the gospel
is committed unto me, what is my reward then?
Verily that when I preach the gospel, I may.
to make the Gospel of Christ without charge,
that I abuse not my power in the Gospel."
I like what Paul says about preaching the Gospel.
He says I have nothing to glory of.
And listen, Paul's not trying to make converts of Paul.
He's trying to point people to Jesus.
And he's made this priority in his life,
and he's made it his life's aim and goal,
if you will, to preach the Gospel.
We read about the heart of the Apostle Paul
in the book of Romans,
and you don't need to turn there,
but in Romans 9 and then also in Romans 10,
you find the heart of Paul for individuals to be saved.
And you find that he says in chapter 10 in verse 1,
Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel
is that they might be saved.
He understood the greatest need of mankind is salvation.
And his greatest desire for his brethren,
as you look at chapter 9 in the first three verses
and chapter 10, the first verse,
is that they would be saved.
And this evening, as we begin to think about
the need in our world, the need in our community,
the need in your workplace, the need on your street,
is for people to be saved.
That's what the need is.
And the reality is that we find
that the Apostle Paul understood
that which had been placed upon him as a call.
He understood that God gave him this responsibility
to preach the Gospel.
But this evening, as the people of God,
that great commission that's been given to us
to go into all the world
and preach the Gospel to every creature,
there's really no wiggle room.
There's no out, if you will.
There's a responsibility that's been laid upon us.
The reality this evening is that
when we understand a responsibility,
we're going to either fulfill it
or we're going to neglect it.
We cannot deny the fact that there's a responsibility
that's been given to us.
And often, as we think about the responsibility,
I like to look at it from this vantage point, if you will,
not only of understanding it as being a responsibility,
but it's a privilege.
It is an absolute privilege.
It's not simply duty.
I know a songwriter says, I don't remember which hymn it is,
but duty demands it.
And I understand the thought of that
and I understand the responsibility and the duty aspect.
But this evening, we must understand
that it is an absolute privilege
to share Christ with a lost and dying world.
I understand not everyone's going to be interested.
No doubt you've had more people
as you've sought to share the Gospel
that have rejected you, really rejected Christ,
than perhaps have embraced
and have been eager to hear more about what you have to say.
But it does not change the delight
that we have as the people of God.
When you have the opportunity
to share the truth of the Gospel
and you see somebody bow their head and trust Christ,
what an amazing opportunity that God has given us.
When you experience that miracle,
it's a miracle.
Salvation's a miracle.
And when you experience someone else,
I mean, I understand the miracle
that took place in my life, in your life,
when we trust that Christ,
but when we have the opportunity to see someone else
trust Christ as their Savior,
man, it just does something for us spiritually.
And I hope you can understand that terminology.
I don't know what other words really to use,
but to just say it, it does something for us.
It's just an encouragement.
What a great delight to be able to share Christ.
As we think about the priority,
we also see that Paul continues
and he really shares a philosophy, if you will.
And as we begin to think about the philosophy
that Paul is sharing here in verses 19 through 22,
we understand that he's not seeking
to promote an idea of compromise.
I do not believe that Paul is suggesting
that there would be any compromise.
I think that what Paul is seeking to communicate
is that we need to understand
who it is that we're ministering to.
When we understand some things about the individual
that we're ministering to,
perhaps it helps us in our approach
to ministry with that individual.
See, the reality is that when I'm engaged in ministry,
when we think specifically about this passage of Scripture
and the thought of preaching the gospel,
sharing the truth of the gospel
with a lost and dying world,
with someone that's unsaved,
when I understand a little bit about who they are,
their background, so on and so forth,
it's going to help me in how I approach that individual.
It's not that I'm compromising,
it's not that I'm changing something,
it's simply gonna help me, enable me
to be more pointed and more geared in a certain direction.
When I think about ministry for those that are saved,
as we think about the other context of ministry
as we're ministering to believers,
you know that when we minister to believers,
that when we have some information
about the folks in which we're ministering to,
and we understand who the people are
that we're ministering to,
that it can help us be more effective in ministry?
You know that it is possible
that you could try to minister to somebody
and you could hinder your ability to effectively minister
because of your approach.
Because of your approach.
You could try to minister to some saved people,
you could have a class that you're trying to minister to
and you know about some things
about a certain group of people within that class
and you begin to maybe criticize or downplay
or overemphasize some other thing,
you begin to distance yourself from them
and the ability to be able to effectively minister to them.
If you know that someone
is of a particular religious background
and you just begin by attacking that particular religion,
I mean, both barrels, everything you know,
you just absolutely blast that particular religion.
I can almost guarantee you
that that person is shutting you off.
The reality is that we really don't have to blast
and criticize, we just need to exalt Christ
and just share with them how Christ is better.
Let me tell you what Christ has done for you.
Let me tell you the work that He accomplished on Calvary for you.
And the reality is that when we begin to take that approach
and begin to share with someone what Christ has done for me,
oh, it gives us that opportunity, that open door, if you will.
See, I know that not every person
is going to be interested in hearing the truth,
but the reality is that I want to be careful in my approach
to not, by my words and by my approach, to turn them off.
Does that make sense?
And so we see that Paul, I do not believe
that he's suggesting any kind of compromise,
but I think he's stressing here
and seeking to communicate here
that for us to have an understanding
of who it is that we're ministering to,
specifically with regard to giving the gospel,
that will help us to be more effective.
Notice in verse 19,
for though I be free from all men,
yet have I made myself servant unto all
that I might gain the more.
And unto the Jews I became as a Jew,
that I might gain the Jews.
To them that are under the law is under the law,
that I might gain them that are under the law.
To them that are without law is without law,
being not without law to God, but under the law to Christ,
that I might gain them that are without the law.
To the weak became I as weak, that I might gain the weak.
I made all things to all men
that I might by all means save some.
If you're not careful, there are some that would say
and suggest from this passage of Scripture
this idea of compromise.
See, Paul's not seeking,
if you understand the context in which the Bible was written,
you understand the time and the history
and all the things that are taking place
and the different people groups.
Listen, Paul is not interested in making Gentiles Jews.
He's not interested in making Jews Gentiles.
What he is interested in is he's interested
in preaching Christ and seeing people converted.
That's what he's interested in.
And the reality, see, I've had some people say,
oh, what is your denomination?
And, you know, are you Protestant?
And I try not to get into all the discussion
because Baptists really aren't Protestant.
And if you study church history and so on and so forth,
but people aren't gonna follow you on all that stuff.
But the reality is I like to tell people,
listen, it's not about a religion.
It's about a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ.
I'm a Baptist by conviction
because I believe what the Baptist people stand for
historically, and I believe the distinctives
and I believe they're important.
But the reality is that we're Bible believers.
There are some Baptist churches
that ought to take the name Baptist out of it
because they no longer believe the book
that I'm preaching from this evening.
But if we believe the book
and if we believe the fundamentals
and believe those distinctives,
yes, we identify as being a Baptist.
But the reality is that here in this text of scripture
and in the context of what's going on,
you understand that there were some Judaizers
that were going around and saying to the Gentiles
that you have to be circumcised like Moses
in order to be saved.
If you're not, you cannot be saved.
I mean, all kinds of false teaching going on
throughout this particular era of church history.
And you find that Paul will say to the believers in Galatia
in Galatians 6 and verse 15, he says,
for Christ Jesus, neither circumcision availeth anything
nor uncircumcision, but a new creature.
what's he saying? Well, the only way to be a new creature is to be in Christ, 2
Corinthians 5 verse 17. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. So he says,
listen, in Christ neither circumcision or uncircumcision availeth anything, but a
new creature. And here in 1 Corinthians 9, in verses 19 through 22, I believe
that what Paul is seeking to communicate to these believers in Corinth is a
philosophy of understanding and not missing the truth of seeing people
converted, helping them to understand their greatest need, and that's Christ.
I've often told people over the years, listen, I'm not asking you to join our
church. I'm not. I'm not asking you to put money in our offering plate. I'm not. I
want to share Christ with you, because one day you're gonna die. One day you're
gonna die. And are you gonna spend eternity in heaven or in the lake of
fire? And it's a privilege of ours to be able to share that truth. Listen, there
are groups of people that are trying to get people to join their church. There
are groups of people that are just trying to get them to sign up and be part of
their... really, it's more like a club. But if someone never joins our church, if
someone never gives any money in our offering plate, but we have the privilege
of sharing Christ with them and they trust Christ as their Savior, and they're
going to go to heaven as a result of that miraculous conversion, glory to God!
What a joy and privilege that is ours. I'm not trying to make somebody a
Baptist. After they get saved, I'm gonna try to disciple them and teach them why
I'm a Baptist and give them the truth of God's Word and go through that process
of discipleship and so on and so forth. But you understand the philosophy of
understanding that there are saved people and there are lost people. There's two
destinations and we need to seek to reach individuals with the gospel. We
find that the Apostle Paul will continue here and he says in verse 23,
and this I do for the gospel sake. What's he talking about? Everything that we just
read in those verses, the way in which he was communicating his philosophy, he was
doing these things for the gospel sake, that I might be able to share Christ,
that I might be able to preach the gospel, that people would hear the
truth of God's love, the gospel, the good news. In a nutshell, the death, burial, and
glorious resurrection of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. What a joy to
communicate that message. And we find this evening that as we continue, he says
that I might be a partaker thereof with you. And we get to the last point, if I
could give this final point this evening, not only do we see the priority in the
philosophy, but we see the prize for Paul. It's interesting how he finishes
this chapter of Scripture and how it would relate to these individuals that
were there in Corinth and how they would understand very quickly what Paul was
referring to. He would deal with these Ithmian games and as he would begin to
use this illustration, it was an illustration that the readers could
easily relate to and understand. And he says here in verse 24,
"...know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize.
So run, that ye may obtain. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate
in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown," notice this, "...but we,
an incorruptible." It begins to talk about these games and these
competitors that are in these games, and they have a goal. What's their goal? To
win. These games really predate the Olympic Games, and we'd understand some
things about the Olympic Games, no doubt. We've heard things and seen things over
the years of our lives about the Olympics and the training that goes into
the restrictive diets that these athletes adhere to and all of these
things that they do. Why? Because they want to win. I understand that culture's
changing a little bit today and they just want to give a trophy for, like,
participation in some of our younger sports and what-have-you. I was raised to
win if I was gonna play. You understand what I'm saying? I never played a game to
just have fun. I just didn't. We played to win. Now, if I didn't win, you're gonna
lose graciously the same way you gotta win graciously. It was easier to win
graciously than to lose graciously. But sometimes you lose in life, right? I mean,
it's just what happens. And by the way, it's good for your character. We find
that Paul says they're running to obtain a prize. They're running to win.
But there's only one that's gonna receive the prize and this prize that he
speaks about is a corruptible crown. A wreath of pine, if you will. They didn't
use gold medals like the Olympic Games used today. They would use this
wreath of pine and it was corruptible. It was temporary. And he says this,
but we, an incorruptible. I therefore so run, verse 26, not as uncertainly, so fight
I, not as one that beat at the air. I keep under my body and bring it into
subjection, lest that by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should
be a castaway. The idea of being rejected, useless, of no value. But we'd think as we
would understand this prize of an incorruptible crown. In verse 25, the
Bible says, but we, an incorruptible. And then Paul says this, in verse 26, I
therefore so run, not as uncertainty, uncertainly, excuse me, so fight I, not as
one that beat at the air. And so we find that Paul is saying, here's what I'm
doing. I'm seeking to do these things for the gospel's sake. See, Paul understood
some truth. I mean, some amazing things that happened in the life of the
Apostle Paul. Of course, we know that his name was Saul before his
conversion. And we think about his conversion as it's recorded in Acts 9,
and all that that took place, and how God changed his life. We think about this
truth of the gospel's sake, and what it means to preach the gospel, and to give
the truth of the good news of Jesus Christ to a lost and dying world. And you
know, when you see someone trust Christ as their Savior, not only does it give
you just a reason to rejoice, but that's an eternal decision. There are some
people that I've not seen in years, but I led the Christ a long time ago. I
don't know where all those people are, but the reality is that one day, one day
we'll see them in heaven, in glory. I remember a man in a church that I
attended years ago. He would say something like this when you would
depart, something to the effect of, see you here, there, or in the air. And speaking
about the truth of, listen, there's gonna be a reunion one day. Oh,
what a grand reunion. I understand we're gonna see our Savior face-to-face. What a
blessed truth. But think about the brethren. I think about, and I shared
with someone just this past week as we were sharing testimonies, and I had the
opportunity, and really it was a result of watching this video and talking
about this video that I'm about to show you, and the way in which this man that
for so many years so faithfully sought to give the gospel. But there's something
unique, and you'll see it in the video, is that he really didn't know the full
impact that he was having. And the reality is that there are times in which
we don't know the full impact of our witness. Some water, or some plant, some
water, but God giveth the increase. And I was mindful as I had this conversation
after watching this video with this individual of the man that God used to
share the gospel with my dad initially, and many of you heard that testimony a
little over a year ago. And what a blessing to think about his faithfulness
in sharing the truth of the gospel, and then when my dad was able to reconnect
with him, to share with him some things that that had happened. He just didn't
even know. He had no idea. And there's some people, as we give out some gospel tracks,
as we share a witness, we just don't know. But we have to be
faithful. We have to be diligent to give the gospel. Why? Because, number one, it's
our job. It's our responsibility. But it is a privilege. It is a privilege to
share the gospel. But number two, when we're mindful of the fact that out of
all of the people upon the earth, seven plus billion people,
There's only two categories of people, saved and lost, period, that's it.
And there's two eternal destinations, heaven and the lake of fire.
And I'll tell you, in our very first missions conference that we had, as I was the pastor
here, the missionary that was here that week with us made this statement, I want to do
to get the gospel to those that do not have it, what I would want for them to do for me
if I did not have it.
And that's a great thought, because if you were lost, you'd want somebody to come tell
you about this.
I mean, I know that you might not think that you want somebody to tell you about this,
but on this side of being saved, you say, man, I'd want somebody to tell me.
And in that account, in the gospels of that rich man and Lazarus, after that rich man
died, what did he want?
I want to send him back to tell my brothers.
I don't want him to come to this place, right?
I mean, that's what the Bible tells us.
And so this evening, I hope that we would make a commitment to God that, you know what?
By God's grace and with God's help, I'm going to be a witness.
I don't know how many are in here.
Dad, how many are in here tonight?
Fifty-six in the building.
He always has numbers, right?
He's got to know exactly how many people are here.
That's why I said dad.
I knew he didn't know the answer.
This man that we're going to watch this video on, he made a commitment to God to pass out
10 tracts a week.
Do you know if each person in here, I know there's children in that number, but let's
just say 40 of us made that commitment to the Lord.
With God's help and by God's grace, we gave out 10 tracts.
He said a day.
If we just said a week.
If we just said a day.
That's a lot of people getting the truth to, getting the truth to, planting the seeds,
letting God work.
It's our job.
It's our responsibility and it is a great privilege and I understand there are times
in which we get discouraged with it because we think, man, they just don't want to hear.
They just don't want to listen and the devil wants to discourage you when that happens
so that you become more reluctant to give the truth.
Jesus Joyce shared this story last year.
She shared a gospel tract with someone and they tossed it in the garbage and she said,
get that tract up.
You need to go read that.
I was, man, I guess you got to be above 90 to get away with something like that.
Amen.
And, but man, what courage and boldness.
What would, what would cause her to make that statement?
She knows what the content of that gospel tract is and she knows that it has the gospel
and the power to change that individual's life.
She can't make that individual get saved, but man, I want you to at least read it.
And so I hope the people on live stream don't leave us.
I want you to see this video as well and it's, it's about an eight and a half minute video
and at the end of the video, we'll come and close our service in prayer, have an invitation.
I'm going to dim this light, brother Jim, if you would show that video.